---
title: Personal Statement
author:
  - name: _Kha Dinh Duy_
---

#### Research and Work Experience

I obtained my bachelor degree from Hochiminh University of Technology. As a
Ph.D. candidate in systems security at Sungkyunkwan University, my research
explores how thoughtful system design can deliver both strong security and
practical performance. My work has been recognized at leading international
venues, including a Distinguished Paper Award at the 2023 ACM Conference on
Computer and Communications Security. That project introduced novel ways of
splitting programs into components, showing that new hardware features can be
used to contain attacks with low overhead. In a more recent project accepted to
the 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy the leading security conference,
I designed a new operating system architecture that makes cloud-hosted virtual
machines more resistant to data leaks. I have also contributed to memory safety
research, including work published at USENIX Security Symposium 2024 that
developed faster methods to detect errors in the Rust programming language.

#### Personal Qualities

I truly believe that research is not an individual pursuit, but a collective
endeavor. This perspective has led me to stay connected with the community. As
an undergraduate, I spent three months volunteering on a project to build rural
roads. Although unrelated to computer science, the experience reminded me that
meaningful work often requires sustained effort. Within my field, I have
contributed to the broader systems security community through service on the
Artifact Evaluation Committees for USENIX Security and ACM CCS, as well as the
Poster Program Committee for CCS. Using my programming experience, I have also
developed tools that extend beyond my own needs. For example, noticing the lack
of bibliographic management support in text editors, I created
[bibli-ls](https://github.com/kha-dinh/bibli-ls), an open-source tool that helps
academics manage their citations. I contributed to the Unikraft unikernel
project as well, developing security features and contributing bug fixes. In my
free time, I explore pixel art and the craft of video game developmentâ€”a pursuit
that balances programming with artistic design. I even developed my own game,
[The Last Cat](https://cafemanhzu.itch.io/the-last-cat). Together, these
activities reflect the qualities I aim to carry forward as a researcher:
creativity in approaching problems, curiosity to explore new domains, and
initiative to address unmet needs.

#### Career Aspirations

I aspire to lead research that addresses problems of real societal significance,
while cultivating an open and collaborative culture where students and
colleagues can thrive.

Authenticity is central to how I approach research. For me, authenticity means
choosing problems because they matter, not because they are fashionable, and
pursuing solutions with both curiosity and rigor. It also means being
transparent about the strengths and limitations of the results, so that others
can rely on my work as a foundation for their own. In collaborations, I practice
authenticity by valuing colleagues as equal contributors and fostering open,
respectful dialogue.

Equally important is cultivating a culture where students and collaborators feel
ownership over their ideas and are encouraged to take risks. Having experienced
limited opportunities to collaborate early in my Ph.D., I came to realize vital
dialogue and openess are for the growth of a research. Since then, I have
actively sought out collaborations and service roles that connect me with
diverse researchers, and I aspire to foster that openness in my own lab.

#### Teaching

Teaching is a natural extension of my aspirations. I plan to deepen this role as
I move into a postdoctoral fellowship and beyond. At UBC, I look forward to
teaching operating systems and security courses, where I can bring my research
directly into the classroom. I believe teaching should inspire students to
question assumptions, connect theory with practice, and think critically about
the technologies they use every day. By drawing on real-world case studies from
my own research, I hope to make abstract ideas concrete and to equip students
with both technical tools and ethical perspectives.

\newpage

Address the following:

- Describe your research experience and relevant work experiences
- Describe your personal qualities through other activities such as
  athletic/artistic achievements, leadership activities, community engagements,
  volunteerism, etc.
- Describe your career aspirations
- Include details concerning what teaching, if any, you will be doing and how it
  is related to your work
